CodePipeline is an AWS service for continuous
delivery of solutions in the cloud.
With CodePipeline,
you can visually model the automated processes that release
software changes to your environments.
CodePipeline connects to source control repositories of your application,
such as CodeCommit, Git, and S3. CodeCommit, if you're unfamiliar with it,
is AWS's fully managed source control service.
CodeCommit hosts Git‑based repositories in AWS and can be easily integrated
with CodePipeline for automated deployment of code updates.
Cloud9 and CodePipeline can be used together, as Cloud9 can be connected to
your repository and be used to make updates to your code base.
CodePipeline is also connected to your code repository, and
then it can be used to automate the release processes
required when making new updates.
CodePipeline can be triggered to release changes
automatically or manually when code changes are made.
With CodePipeline, you can configure automated testing,
building, and deploying of applications immediately when a CodeCommit‑based
change is made. A common practice is to have CodePipeline configured so that
development or test environments automatically have changes released to them
when updates are made. Then, a manual approval is required to push the new
changes to the production environment.
By using CodePipeline,
you can easily model and visualize this setup simplistically with a
continuous release chain. With Cloud9 and CodePipeline, you can
develop cloud‑native solutions with continuous delivery chains all
directly in the AWS console.
From your computer, you can access Cloud9 to read,
write, and debug your code, as we've shown before.
Then, you can link Cloud9 with CodeCommit so that you can push new code
updates directly to your Git‑based repository hosted in AWS.
Your continuous delivery chain can be configured such that when
updates are made to your CodeCommit repository,
it automatically triggers an application build.
After the application is built,
automated tests can be run to ensure the quality of the new application.
The automated building and testing of software in AWS can be easily
done with another AWS service called CodeBuild.
Once our code has been built and tested,
another AWS service can be used to automatically release our updates
to a variety of AWS compute services, such as EC2,
or even to our on‑premise servers.
This AWS service is called CodeDeploy. Looking at our entire
continuous delivery chain, this is modeled,
created, and visualized by using CodePipeline directly in our AWS console.
CodePipeline basically is orchestrating the automated deployment, testing,
and building of AWS solutions by using other AWS services.
That can sound a little confusing, but let me try and explain it more concisely.
I would say that you can use Cloud9 to read,
write, and debug your code, and then use CodePipeline to automate the building,
testing, and releasing of it.
CodePipeline is basically an orchestrator of other AWS services
that makes the entire continuous delivery pipeline easily visualized and modeled in the AWS console.